Combining the resounding of original hard-rock purveyors like Black
Sabbath, Jimi Hendrix, and Led Zeppelin with the urgent sonic velocity and
aggressive intent of early 80's hardcore a la Black Flag and Discharge,
modern-day speed-lace heavy metal is arguably the most important force in
music today.  Spearheaded by the massive and seemingly-unlikely successes of
bands like Metallica, Slayer and Anthrax, a second generation of speed-metal
has evolved.  Leading the way are Bay Area bad boys, Testament.

     Born out of teenage suburban boredom and a diligent fervor for playing
frenetically brain-jarring hyper-riffs, these five merchants of mosh (slang
for the often hazardous acts of stage diving and slam dancing by fans at
concerts), vocalist Chuck Billy, guitarists Alex Skolnick and Eric Peterson,
bassist Greg Christian and drummer Louie Clemente are soaring towards
legendary status.

     Over the course of their four mind-blistering vinyl/laser efforts
(1987's debut "The Legacy", followed by '88's "The New Order", '89's
Practice What You Preach", and last year's ground-breaking "Souls Of Black",
all released through Megaforce / Atlantic), Testament have built a reputation
or unleashing no-frills, uncompromising music.  Last year saw them touring
European arenas (as part of the heralded "Clash Of The Titans" tour with
Slayer, Megadeth and Suicidal Tendencies), similar-sized American venues
(with Judas Priest), and most recently, in support of death-metal icons,
Slayer.  The tried-and-true rock success formula of non-stop touring and
recording has paid off for the Testa-men, with significant radio and MTV
airplay for their single "Souls Of Black," lucrative merchandising and some
serious six-digit sales figures (over 400,000 units of Souls Of Black sold at
press time).  They've made their mark as keepers of the speed-metal flame,
and don't plan to change anytime soon.

     "I think the main reson we've survived is that we do what we like, we
never sold out," offers Chuck Billy, the band's imposing vocalist.  "Not to
sound corny or anything, but we've always played music from the heart.  We're
fans of the music we play -- which is hard, fast speed-metal and thrash
music.  It's all about playing music with lots of energy, and keeping it
challenging.  As far as I'm concerned, that's what heavy music should be.  We
don't wanna be like Metallica or Slayer -- but we're obviously fans of their
style from over the years, and they've been a major influence on us.
Testament is a heavy band, but we try to do something different from the
average thrash band."

     A major part of Testament's essence is their bond with their
somtimes-anarchic audience, and their fandom's extremely physical reaction to
the music -- namely, "the pit," where participants mosh and otherwise get
wild.  "Yeah, we're into the action," Billy relates, "We get off and we get
excited when the crowd gets into it.  The wilder they get out there, the more
hyped we get.  A lot of bands may say something like that, but in our case,
we need it.  That's a major part of what Testament's all about.  If they're
not goin' crazy out there, I'm probably not going to be able to give the best
performance, if you know what I mean."

     "Now that we've mover up to a bigger level -- playing arenas and big
halls instead of the clubs -- we've been lucky that things haven't really
changed.  Sure, there's a barrier between us and the audience now [arenas and
concert halls usually erect a wall between the stage and the front row, for
photographers and/or protection of the artists], but as long as we can see
the kids out there goin' wild, we're okay.  We're glad that things are movin'
on for us real well, but we don't wanna lose sight of what got us there in
the first place.  Our music's still heavy and in-your-face, and that's the
main thing.  We're not gonna get weird about things now that we're becoming a
little more well-known.  There's some people out there who think it's bad to
make it big -- some kids think you've sold-out just because you start sellin'
some records.  And some bands think that you shouldn't go big-time.  We're
not into that.  We want our music to become as big and popular as possible --
that's what it's all about.  We don't wanna be an unsuccessful underground
band, we want people to remember Testament, and hopefully they'll be somehow
influenced by what we do and say."

     What Testament offer that's different from standard metal fare are
lyrics with significant meaning.  While they're not exactly Jackson Browne or
U2 (many of the band's lyrics are steeped on the darker side of life and/or
fantasy characters), Testament have garnered considerable acclaim for songs
with social significance -- like 1989's "Greenhouse Effect" or "Perilous
Nation," which comment on various environmental / political issues.  "We're
not here to change the world; we're just a band," Chuck says.  "We're not a
political band, we don't wanna get ourselves stuck in that trap.  But we do
observe a lot of things that go on in day-to-day life, and as a band, we
should be free to express ourselves as we see fit.  As far as the kinda
political songs we have got, there's a lot of fucked up things going on out
there in the world, and we shouldn't not talk about them, just 'cause we're a
metal band.  The greenhouse effect is a universal thing, even thrashers are
gonna have to deal with it. It's important for people to know what's going on
in the world, and music should be just another place for them to learn.  But
like I said, that's only one small part of our music, and because of that, it
does sometimes get overexaggerated."

     "Also, when we play live, the songs are a little bit different and
faster, and it's pretty much there for the kids to mosh to, and let off some
aggression.  So, we don't really expect people to get the words we're sayin
in our songs when it's live at a club or theater or somethin'.  But when the
fan goes home, and listens to the record and read the lyric sheet, that's
where we're gonna make some impact.  But we're not preaching either.  We
don't offer any solutions to these things -- after all, we don't have the
answers ourselves.  We do pose the questions, so the kids can go out and
decide for themselves what should be done to help -- if they want to."

     To the casual outside obsever, a heavy-metal concert can be a violent
experience.  Metal fans ain't exactly angels, to say the least, and their
collective reactions to their fave acts is usually rabid and out-of-control.
Frontman Billy explains this unique artist-fan relationship: "Our music, and
[that of] bands like us, gives the fans a chance to release some of their
built-up aggression or frustration.  When they come to a Testament show, they
can go off and get really into it.  Our music is heavy and we use it to let
off some steam too.  As a fan, I always liked metal because it was powerful
and heavy, and that's what we try to do.  But people have got to realize that
while things get really crazy sometimes, it's all in fun.  We're not trying
to get people to kill themselves.  We don't write songs that say 'Kill your
mom.'  We're not into that.  The only times we've had any real problems with
real violence is when gang members would come to a show and try to start
fights -- that happened a few years ago when we played with Suicidal
Tendencies -- and that was pretty much the only time.  Those people should
realize that if they wanna fight, they should stay away from the shows and go
fight in the street.  But yeah, luckily, we haven't had many problems with
bad violence at our gigs, most people don't take it to that extreme.  There's
violence at our concerts, but it's friendly, and the fans know that.  That's
why you haven't heard of anyone getting killed at one of our shows, or
anything like that."

     Another thing which seperates Testament from the mindless metal millions
is that they're not one of those groups who are the real sell-outs, doing
"Just Say No" propaganda/public service announcements for radio and
television while privately feeding costly cocaine/heroin habits.  Testament
are proud weed smokers, who fight for their right to party.  "It burns me up.
I don't do coke or crank or any other shit like that -- I smoke pot.  It's
just a plant, and I get shit for that.  They say drugs are drugs, which is
bullshit.  My manager always gives me shit whenever I say anything about this
subject, but I'm just telling you the truth.  I'm not gonna sit here and say
I'm an angel when I'm not.  I'm not gonna lie to the kids, and I'm not gonna
lie to your readers.  I choose to smoke pot, and I like it.  I'm not tellin'
people that they should smoke pot too -- that would be wrong and
hyppocritical -- but I do support people's freedom to do what they choose.
The way things are now in our society, you can get arrested for smoking a
plant, and that seems ridiculous to me."

     Beyond Neanderthal metal and bullshit music-biz posturing, Testament are
a band that simply makes hard rock that matters -- incorporating
politically-conscious lyrics with fantasy metal tales, and mixing speed-laced
power chords with memorable harmonies.  Testament have stuck to their guns
and are reaping the rewards of hard work.